pyberlab 0.1.0
===============

:Status: Unreleased

Version 0.1.0 is the planned first public release of pyberlab. It provides a
reproducible foundation for comparing uncoded digital-modulation BER over AWGN
and coherent flat Rayleigh fading.

Highlights
----------

* Unit-average-power BPSK, Gray-coded QPSK, 8-PSK, 16-QAM, and 64-QAM
  constellations with hard-decision demodulation.
* AWGN and independent per-symbol Rayleigh channel models using explicit NumPy
  random generators for reproducibility.
* Exact or numerically averaged BER theory matched to each implemented receiver.
* Adaptive Monte Carlo sampling, CSV export, and reusable semilog BER plotting.
* Four executed example notebooks covering individual modulations and comparative
  experiments.

Theory coverage
---------------

BPSK and QPSK use closed-form BER expressions for both channels. The 8-PSK
AWGN baseline integrates the exact receiver decision regions, while its
Rayleigh result averages that conditional BER over the fading distribution.
The 16-QAM and 64-QAM baselines enumerate Gray-label Hamming distances across
the PAM decision regions, then numerically average the exact AWGN result for
Rayleigh fading.

Quality and compatibility
-------------------------

* Python 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12 are exercised by GitHub Actions.
* The release is covered by 107 unit, integration, reproducibility,
  input-validation, and simulation-to-theory tests.
* Ruff validates the Python sources and executable notebooks.
* Sphinx builds the API reference with documentation warnings treated as errors.

Known limitations
-----------------

* Only uncoded, hard-decision links are modelled.
* Rayleigh fading is independent from symbol to symbol and coherent equalization
  assumes perfect channel-state information.
* The high-SNR Monte Carlo estimate can contain zero observed errors when it
  reaches the configured bit cap; the theoretical result remains available.
* Rician fading, OFDM, channel coding, and MIMO remain future work.

See also
--------

* :doc:`Modulation API <../api/modulation>`
* :doc:`Channel API <../api/channel>`
* :doc:`Simulation API <../api/simulation>`
* :doc:`BER theory API <../api/theory>`
